---
layout: page
title: "Continuous testing with Guard, RSpec, and Cucumber"
category: rspec
date: 2018-12-23
---

The Guard gem watches for when you modify code or test files, and
automatically re-runs tests that could be affected by those changes
immediately, so you get instant feedback if you just broke something.
It's a great tool for supporting true TDD but a bit tricky to set up.

Add to the `test` and `development` groups in your `Gemfile` and then
rerun `bundle install`:

```ruby
group :test, :development do
  gem 'guard'
  gem 'guard-rspec', require: false
  gem 'guard-cucumber'
  gem 'guard-shell'
end
```

Run `guard init rspec` and then `guard init cucumber` to populate an
initial `Guardfile`, **and add that file to your repo**. 

Guard works with plugins that tell it how to integrate with different
testing tools.  In the `Guardfile`, the blocks named `group rspec`,
`group cucumber`, etc. name the different plugins and tools.  Within
each plugin's block, there are one or more blocks
`guard :`_tool`, :cmd => `_command-to-run-tests_
that have the structure:

`watch(`_regexp matching filenames_`) { _tests to run when those files change_ }`

If you look at the default provided block for Rspec, you should be
able to discern the following rules: 

* When a controller file changes, run all specs for that controller

* When helper files change, run all specs

* When routes file(s) change, run all route specs

* When `application_controller.rb` changes, rerun all controller specs
(since all controllers inherit from `ApplicationController`)

Basically you are telling Guard which tests _may_ cover functionality
in the files that changed.

Start up Guard by running `bundle exec guard`.  Make a trivial change
to one of your project files to make a test fail (e.g. introduce a
syntax error), and watch Guard re-run the matching specs.

## Running only a subset of specs

In the `:cmd` argument to `guard :rspec` block, note the option
`:failed_mode => :focus`.  This means: If one or more specs failed as
a result of the most recent test run, on future runs try _only those_
failed specs, until they pass; then go back to running all affected
specs.

To make this work, we have to do two things.  First, we have to tell
RSpec to enable _focus mode_, in which _only_ specs annotated with
`:focus => true` are run.  In `spec/rails_helper.rb`, add in the RSpec
configuration block:

```ruby
  config.filter_run :focus => true
  config.run_all_when_everything_filtered = true
```

Then, when Guard has just run some tests and hit a failure, annotate a
single example (`it "does something" do...end`) or a group of examples
(`describe "something" do...end`) with `:focus => true`.  The next
time you change a file that might affect these specs, only the specs
so annotated will be run.

When those specs go back to passing, remove `:focus => true` and the
next Guard-triggered run will re-run all affected specs.

